---
title: "The Night Circus"
subtitle: "Unremarkable fantasy"
created: 2023-18-12
---

# The Night Circus

The Night Circus by Erin Morgenstern is a story about a circus, one that
appears in the night, about it's varied performers, its dreamlike tents
and of a duel that consumes both the contestents and its venue.

I found the book generally unremarkable. The premise was what really
attracted me to the book; magic and mystery, the promise of battle on
the stage of a circus(?). About two thirds of the way into the book, the
magic was lets say, lost, and I was skipping over to confirm how I
suspected the book would continue and finish.

The book starts off strong – an air of mystery about the circus, a
challenge, flawed but endearing protagonists with a promise of lot more
to come, but looses its footing somewhere in the middle.

**Spoilers Below Tread With Caution**

Bailey's story feels entirely out of place, written almost as if to
justify the end of the book, which itself feels clichéd and contrived.
It meanders into the classic love triangle with the actual challenge
taking the back seat and dissolves into a boring romantic drama. The
further I got, the lesser I cared about the fate of our heroes, I
couldn't care who reigned supreme. I didn't believe that both Marco and
Celia fall maddeningly in love, in the same way I didn't believe Marco
and Isobel did. It, didn't feel "real". Like the book was telling me
this had happened instead of it being the natural course of events. It
felt, like information, exposition.

The atmosphere that the book creates with the circus, its tents and
their denizens though is fantatstic. The evocative detail of what the
circus smells, tastest and looks like makes it almost ethereal. It's
assortment of dreamlike tents, coupled with a vibrant cast of unique
performers taking the stage, I often found myself savouring them word
for word, trying to imagine the picture the author creates, a balance
between the real and the magical.

The book (unsurprisingly) ends with a happily ever after. The final
conversation of the book, trying to relay a message about the power of
stories, fell flat on my rushed ears. It did however remind me to revist
one of my absolute favorite nerdwriter videos[^1]. I did get what I was
looking for with this book, a way to get back into reading with
something I didn't care too much about.

[^1]: [Neil Gaiman's Sandman: What Dreams Cost](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YhA0GVi_N4E)
