---
title: dev log 19
subtitle: and so it begins
created: 2020-10-06
---
# Dev Log 19

The MLH Fellowship kicks off today!

Alright, that's incorrect, it officially started yesterday and we were sent the
invites for our meetings, workshops, chat applications etc. We were also
supposed to go through a prerequiste course that introduced Git, GitHub, the
MLH contribution workflow and a couple of legal things. I am surprised how well
the [Introduction to
GitHub](https://lab.github.com/githubtraining/introduction-to-github) course
and the other courses on GitHub's [Learning Lab](https://lab.github.com/) are
structured. They do a great job of walking you through the workflow of GitHub.
Very cool!

Today we had a fantastic 3 hour kick off meeting with all the memebers of the
**Pod**. At the beginning of the program, all the fellows are placed into
groups called "pods" and work on projects (in our pod, open-source projects)
over the next 12 weeks. The projects that our pod will be working on are:

- Flask
- Click
- Jinja
- Werkzeug
- Julia Language
- BentoML
- SciML

For the rest of the week we're supposed to build a project which uses one or
more of the projects above. We decided on making a mobile application which
people can use to request for help from others, since in the current situation
there's a lot of people that are in dire need of help, and can in no way ask
for it.

Since I have existing experience with flask I have taken on the job of setting
up the backend and showing the ropes of flask to one of my teammates who's
unfamiliar with python. The third member will be working on the frontend for
the app and is supposed to send us paper wireframes tonight. So starting
tomorrow we get working.

It was a very exhausting day. In all I was in meetings for 6 hours, which
drained me completely, but I enjoy getting exhausted, it means I'm working on
something and not wasting my time away on YouTube or DOTA. Hopefully this is
the beginning of a good 12 weeks and I'm looking forward to it.
