---
title: recollect
subtitle: "Things to return to later"
created: 2021-05-29
---

# Recollect

Various resources, bits of information and wisdom to return to and
recall.

**[Three questions - Leo
Tolstoy](https://www.plough.com/en/topics/culture/short-stories/the-three-questions)**

When is the best time to do each thing? Who are the most important
people to work with? What is the most important thing to do at all
times?

**[A liberal decalogue - Bertrand
Russell](https://www.brainpickings.org/2012/05/02/a-liberal-decalogue-bertrand-russell/)**

A vision for responsibilities of a teacher, in which Russell touches on
a number of recurring themes from pickings past — the purpose of
education, the value of uncertainty, the importance of critical
thinking, the gift of intelligent criticism, and more.

**[How to disagree - Paul
Graham](http://www.paulgraham.com/disagree.html)**

What does it mean to disagree well? Most readers can tell the difference
between mere name-calling and a carefully reasoned refutation, but it
would help to put names on the intermediate stages.

**[A cheatsheet on
discourse](https://wiki.xxiivv.com/site/discourse.html)**

Cheatsheet for the mechanics of communication

**[Working with
monsters](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/o4cgvYmNZnfS4xhxL/working-with-monsters)**

Let’s start with an ethical question,” he began, then laid out a simple
scenario. “So,” he asked once finished, “blue or green?”

**[On the subject of talent](https://drawabox.com/article/talent)**

A response to whether a person "with no talent" but who put in a lot of
hard work could ever stand to create work as good as someone "with
talent" who also put in a lot of hard work.

[**How to write quickly whilte maintaining epistemic
rigor**](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/Psr9tnQFuEXiuqGcR/how-to-write-quickly-while-maintaining-epistemic-rigor)

Think about why you currently believe something, and try to accurately
describe what led you to believe it, instead of falling into the rabbit
hole of research trying to conclusively prove it before sharing it.

[**Vincent Van Gogh visits the
gallery**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ubTJI_UphPk)

What makes this scene poignant isn't so much the fact that Van Gogh died
penniless and believed himself a failure and the Doctor shows him the
impact his work had on future generations.  It's the fact that all human
beings, famous or not, want to know their lives had some meaning and
that we had an effect on the world, even if that effect never goes
beyond our own families.  We want to know our children are successful
and happy, and the fact that we played some part in that. That is what
truly gives this scene its power. (Credits: Comments Section)
