---
title: dev log 48
subtitle: reflecting on the past month
created: 2021-04-17
---
# Dev Log 48

Another monthly log, seems like this is becoming a thing now. I'll need to
block time once per week to write these out more regularly. I liked the format
of the previous log (separate sections instead of a single entry), so I'll keep
using that:

**Internship**

It was a rather unremarkable month tech wise, as I mentioned in the previous
entry we've been migrating and cleaning up our existing infrastructure and
database, organizing things on AWS, creating organizational processes etc etc.
More internal tools were built than customer facing ones to improve and
automate existing tasks/activities that other team members performed on a
regular basis. We also fixed a serious deployment bug, and I added an
`nsq_exporter` to our existing monitoring setup to improve visibility for our
queues. The coming weeks look promising and interesting. We're getting a
security audit done and since I'm responsible for Ops I'll be setting up all
the relevent security infra according to their reports and feedback. So I'm
quite happy about that.

**HackTheBox**

I setup a `Vagrant` Kali machine to play some HackTheBox challenges, see what
it's really about and learn along the way. `Vagrant` has been a pleasure to use
and it's a very comfortable environment to tackle the challenges.

**Personally**

The past week has been quite stressful, there's been a sudden exponential
increase in the number of COVID19 cases in India. Every member in the team
knows someone that's infected or is infected themselves leading to lower morale
and some sense of fear seeping in. I abstain from all media and news outlets so
I was unaware of how bad the current situation is until I was informed during
team calls. The current rate of infection is insane. Since my father is an
essential worker and goes to work regularly it's been doubly stressful with him
coming back and not taking the proper precautions. My mother has been anal
keeping the housmaid, even under the current circumstances. All these factors
have been contributed to me being on the edge all day, not being able to
concentrate on anything. I keep referring to Meditations for guidance, wisdom
and comfort.
