---
title: "On personal productivity"
subtitle: "Paper to-do list ftw"
created: 2021-05-03
---

# On personal productivity

I've been experimenting with various methods of personal organization
for a while. I remember starting out with [Bullet
Journaling](https://bulletjournal.com/), bought a nice dotted notebook,
did it for 2-3 months, and then stopped. Sometime later I tried [OBTF
method](https://jeffhuang.com/productivity_text_file/) but after a month
realized that I just treated it like a data dump, registering data for
the sake of archiving it but not doing anything with it. Some time
passed and came across the [GTD](https://hamberg.no/gtd) method. Tried
to make it work in both analog and digital formats but it never stuck.

It's become a common pattern, some random day "Personal Organization"
(or really a random tangantial thought) will surface. I'll research
about different methods/systems (and believe me there are a
[lot](https://blog.doist.com/personal-productivity-methods/#getting-things-done"))
to approach it, figure out a habit for it, do it for some time and then
it fades like mist from my life and mind, only to resurface at a later
point of time compeleting this meaningless cycle, the only product of
which is wasted time, energy and effort.

The image below is a perfect analogy, but about personal websites/blogs.

![](./static/images/blogging.jpg)
[Credits: Blogging vs. blog setups](https://rakhim.org/honestly-undefined/19/)

At the end of the day, the **best** system/method, is the one **that
you'll actually use/do**. I don't think that's an aphorism, maybe an
axiom, but it's a powerful idea for folks lost in their need to have
everything be perfect before they get started like me.

Say as an example, I've been learning to play the guitar recently. I can
learn it in the comfort of my own home, at my own pace and time while
having access to infinite resources to learn from because the internet
exists, which I'm very grateful for. The caveat though is, _I'm a
beginner_, "I don't know, what I don't know". Since I don't have a
guided authority to place trust into, for well, guidance, I have to
trust myself, a beginner, to make the right decisions about what
resources to use and learn from. This "work" done before you can even
start the activity usually involves diving through blog posts, videos,
articles, forums to try and ascertain, what is the **right/best** way to
do things by calculating intuitively the general perception of "experts"
on these resources.

I'm not going to lie, when you're doing the research, it feels like
you're making progress. Constantly jumping through different resources,
reading new material, following forum conversations, all activities that
lead to more dopamine secreted in the brain, good feeling. But this
"work" that's done to chart a path for a would-be habit, may end up
being empty activity without any impact. Taking my example again, while
I know about various methods of personal organization, guess what I'm
not organized! The work done to figure out the "right" way to do things
had no impact, just consumed time and energy.

Even as I write this, I'm tempted to spend the day and look through all
those methods of personal organization, probably because my brain knows
that it's the fastest route to more dopamine, and it's a hard feeling to
resist. It's exactly for this reason, that I've tried to use writing as
a medium for rational thought to think through the problem and arrive at
a conclusion which might feel self-evident to some, but allows me to
subvert my emotions to do not what feels right, but what I think is
right, that being, just make a simple to-do list. Thanks for coming to
my ted talk.

---

**TL;DR** I've concluded that I like the act of researching new ways of
being productive, instead of actually being productive.

Credits: [icyphox](https://icyphox.sh/)
